---

layout: post
title: Lesson #6: Beauty doesn’t come from adornment
tags: [jewellery, beauty, tattoos, makeup, clothes, attractive, adornment]
date: 2013-09-22
 
---

We live in a world that is obsessed with our appearance and it’s quite easy for us to lose ourselves in adornment. All the clothes, jewellery, accessories, tattoos, makeup, procedures and surgery make effective obsessions. Entire industries have been created to fill these obsession and so to a media whose aim it is to sew doubt, worry and fear to ensure  you buy the solutions they’re selling.

There is nothing wrong with people wanting to preen themselves to show off and invite comment or get attention. It is natural for us to want to look good, but when it comes at the expense of feeling good something is wrong.

It is so easy to fall into the trap that adornment lays, to be distracted and led down a path that prays on our insecurities and fears where no one will love us, they won’t want to be with us or will choose someone else. If buying into the adornment of our appearance comes with all that baggage then something is wrong. Having, or indeed not having, an item of clothing or jewellery doesn’t change YOU or the person that you are. They are only distractions from your true identity – the personality, ability and love that you have to offer. Real beauty doesn’t look like a shiny object, a logo or ink – but a real person with ideas, emotions, a smile, a laugh and a tear.

What matters are the relationships, connections and interactions with other people. What matters is how our mind and emotions steer us through life. What matters is what’s practical – what gets you through the day and gives you more than it asks. What is truly beautiful is yourself, unaided and without the crutch of adornment – you’re mind, heart and soul