---

layout: post
title: "Lesson #7: The Flow of Time"
tags: [time, remember, nostalgia, speed]
date: 2015-03-15
 
---

It's been a long time since my last post. Life makes a habit of that. It often forces you to re-prioritise, re-think and re-schedule things. It makes a habit of being good and happy to just be in the moment that you lose track of time. It's been like that the first 3 years of your life. 

Life has been good. Your mum and I have been so lucky to have a healthy and happy child. You're amazingly strong and resilient which makes caring for you a real pleasure. You've been talking for so long that it's a great joy to watch you learn, ask questions and expand your mind with every new experience. 

It's been great to just live in the moment the last couple of years. To bask in the beauty of the day to day. It's been possible to do that because we're happy. Time seems to be greatly affected by our state of mind and level of happiness. I'm sure if things had gone differently time might have seemed to drag on. An hour like a day, a week like a month, a month like a year. 

When I saw the date of the last time I posted here I was a little shocked. Embarrassed even. I'd started this with such noble intentions and simply forgot about it. I'd become distracted and caught up in so many other things I'd failed to see the flow of time since my last time here. 

Time gets away and sometimes in doing so it erodes or becomes corrosive. It eats away at connections we once had, to people to places. To activities and fun times we once had. Sometimes it's ok to just remember them, but sometimes we realise that the flow of time has taken them away without us noticing and we can't get them back. We feel guilty and loss and sadness, not for what was, but for what could or should have been. 

Time flows. Sometimes I think we need to make sure we remember that. Sometimes we need a day or a date to remember things that are important. We need a ritual that builds on what we want to remember, or re-live. 

Maybe when you get around to reading this, we can talk. We can create a ritual to remember something. To remember the flow of time.  